## Genome/transcriptome assembly
- **Input:**
  - Raw paired-end fastq files
  - Reference genome fasta and gff for *Sporothrix schenckii*, GCF_000961545.1
  - mtDNA reference
- 1. FastQC, MultiQC: Evaluate raw paired-end fastq files
    * FastQC provides information about read quality, overrepresented sequences, adapter content and other statistics on a per-fastq-file basis; MultiQC collates the information from multiple FastQC report files for convenience.
- 2. FastP: Trim adapters and poly g (identified as a contaminant in prior step).
    * FastP is an all-purpose quality control tool that can perform adapter removal, read trimming and base correction
- 3. BBduk: Filter mtDNA
  - A kmer-based quality control tool, BBduk was used here for the function of filtering out reads that match strongly to a set of query sequences (mtDNA in this case).
  - The kmer size setting for BBduk was set to the maximum of `k=31` to make filtering as stringent as possible
  - mtDNA filtering was added when in a previous iteration of the workflow, some of the output contigs were found to align to *Sporothrix* mtDNA. Initially, filtering was carried out post-assembly by using Minimap2 alignments to remove sequences that had mapped to the mtDNA. This broke up the contigs though, as they had mistakenly incorporated the mtDNA sequences into the assembly of valid chromosomes.
    * BBduk's filtering efficiency was validated by aligning the mtDNA with the filtered assembly with Minimap2 as before, and obtaining no alignments, indicating that all mtDNA sequences had been removed
- 4. Spades, Megahit: Assemble reads
  - Both ran in default settings
- 5. BUSCO, Quast: Assess assembly quality
  - BUSCO was set to use the `sordariomycetes_odb10` lineage in `genome` mode, while Quast was provided with the reference genome
      - BUSCO needs to be set in `offline` mode or else it will download the given lineage database automatically in the directory of each run
      - Quast can assess several assemblies at once for comparison purposes
  - The Megahit assemblies produced more contiguous sets of contigs and had higher BUSCO completeness, so these were selected for downstream analysis.
  - Transcriptome assembly was performed in much the same way as genome assembly, except mtDNA was not filtered, RNAspades was used as the assembler and finally BUSCO was set in `transcriptome` mode
- 6. Ragout:  Assemble contigs into scaffolds*
  - Ragout was provided with the GCF_000961545.1 reference sequence to scaffold from, and run on default settings
      * The paths to files are given to Ragout with an `rcp` file, (an example can be found [here](./info/recipe.rcp)). A python script was used to automate writing this file from the command line
  - Several scaffolding tools - ntJoin, sspace, CAP3, RagTag and Ragout - were tested on the highly fragmented sample 2 Megahit contigs (7,639 sequences) before implementing for this step. Regardless of the flags used, Sspace and ntJoin showed no reduction in contig number; CAP3 reduced it by ~ 600 contigs. The reference-based RagTag showed promise, reducing down to  529 sequences. However, Ragout had the best performance (at the cost of speed), generating 13 scaffolds and was chosen.
      * Surprisingly, the addition of more reference genomes to Ragtag did not benefit the scaffolding and often increased the number of unplaced contigs
      * Different Ragout flags (`--refine`, `--solid-scaffolds` and `--repeats`), adding phylogenetic information (in the form of a Newick tree for the samples) and changing the synteny block program made no difference either.
- 7. Minimap2: Align scaffolds to reference sequence
- 8. Samtools: Extract scaffolds from sam file into separate fasta files for each chromosome
    - *Scaffolding and separating the results by chromosome was necessary to take advantage of nextflow's innate parallelization and reduce the time taken for genome annotation.
- **Output:** genome assemblies for each sample, split into fasta files for each chromosome present in the reference sequence

## Genome annotation
- **Input:**
  - Genemarks hmm files for each sample, trained in-house with GenemarksES
  - Augustus species model trained with the Augustus web server on the GCF_000961545.1 reference
      * Training Augustus dynamically with the scaffolds of each sample would simply take too long, especially during the optimization step.
  - A database of repeat elements, generated by combining the TREP database with models produced in-house by RepeatModeler on 8 *Sporothrix* species (*S. brasiliensis*, *S. globosa* CBS strain, *S. globosa* strain SS01, *S. humicola*,
*S inflata*, *S. protearum*, *S. schenckii* and *S. variecibatus*)
      * I did not plan on using 8 species for this step, but decided upon it after having received only 18 repeat element predictions from the *S. schenckii* genome. While this (and using the TREP database) may seem gratuitous, I believe lack of access to RepBase and the highly confounding effects that repeat elements have on ab initio gene predictions justify it (Yandell & Ence, 2012).
  - est evidence: includes the previously assembled transcriptome in addition to known *Sporothrix* genes collected from the NCBI nucleotide database with query `txid29907[Organism:exp] AND biomol_mrna[PROP]`
  - Repeat proteins provided with the Maker download
  - gff evidence from the GCF_000961545.1 reference
  - Protein evidence collected from UniProt Release 2023_02 with query `Sporothrix`
- 1. Maker: First round of Maker annotation, using est, gff, protein, repeat evidence and Genemarks model
- 2. SNAP: Train SNAP on the output from the first round of annotation.
- 3. Maker: Second round of annotation, disabling all evidence-based annotation and using Snap and Augustus for gene prediction only. This was set up so Maker would  populate its annotations with the gff file from the first round
    * Example of options [here](./info/maker_opts.ctl_Round2)
- 4. Snap: Second round of SNAP training, using the Maker's second round output
    * The commands are the same as used in training SNAP in the first round
- 5. Maker: Final round of annotation with the most recent SNAP model
    * The maker options are the same as in the second round, just with the updated SNAP model
- 6. Maker, Seqkit: Extract Maker's final gff and fasta transcripts using the tools packaged with Maker, combine the each scaffolds' annotations into a single file and remove duplicates with Seqkit
- 7. BUSCO: Assess BUSCO completeness of final transcripts with BUSCO in `transcriptome` mode
- The two rounds additional of Maker are only for retraining SNAP to improve its predictions, given that the Genemarks and Augustus models do not change. This three--round structure is the standard protocol to avoid overtraining the predictors and because additional rounds beyond this are usually redundant (Campbell et al., 2014).
- **Output:** gff files containing annotations for each sample, with predicted transcripts and proteins in fasta format.

## Variant calling and identification
- **Input:**
  - Cleaned reads (after trimming and filtering as in genome assembly)
  - Reference sequence GCF_000961545.1
- The variant calling steps are identical to that of Khalfan (2020)'s [implementation](https://gencore.bio.nyu.edu/variant-calling-pipeline-gatk4/Khalfan) (an explanation can be found in the link), with covariate analysis disabled (due to an R bug) and updated from the DSL 1 (which is deprecated in the most recent version of Nextflow) to DSL 2
  - The short reads were aligned to the reference sequence
- **Output:** VCF files for each sample
- Genes of interest were first identified by manually cross-referencing BUSCO output with the GCF_000961545.1 gff file
  - Their regions were extracted from the VCF file using Bcftools
  - This was necessary because the BUSCO gene ranges specified in the output table are far larger than the actual sequence of the gene they contain.
- The `bin` directory contains python scripts for extracting single-copy BUSCO gene sequences from BUSCO output and combining them across samples

#### Building SnpEff database
- Although using the downloadable databases is recommended SnpEff does provide a way for users to construct their own database
- **Reasoning**
  - The GCF_000961545 reference downloadable from SnpEff uses different chromosome headers (e.g. `Cont39`, `Cont41`) to that of the NCBI (e.g. `NW_015971139.1)`. 
    - Since the VCF file was generated using the latter convention, attempting to run SnpEff without formatting the headers first will not work
      - Even after doing this however, I still received ~70% `CHROMOSOME_NOT_FOUND` errors 
      - From looking at the SnpEff data directory, I suspect that not all chromosomes are present, or perhaps the same name refers to different chromosomes). 
      - After rerunning SnpEff with the custom-build database, all the errors disappeared
  - **Note:** The last time this was updated was July 7 2023, so this might not be necessary if SnpEff has updated their database
- **Steps***
  - Download the GenBank file for the the GCF_000961545 reference
    - The easiest way to do this is with the NCBI's `datasets` CLI tool (downloading directly from the web page would always give me a corrupted zip file)
```bash
datasets download genome accession GCF_000961545.1 --include gbff
```
  - Update the SnpEff config file, located in the SnpEff installation directory with the new genome
```config
#---
# Databases are stored here
# E.g.: Information for 'hg19' is stored in data.dir/hg19/
# Custom GCF_000961545 
customGCF000961545.genome : Sporothrix schenckii # The format is <custom_genome_name>.genome : <species>
#
# You can use tilde ('~') as first character to refer to your home directory. 
# Also, a non-absolute path will be relative to config's file tar
# 
#---
data.dew = ./data/ # This is where you specify the data directory, in the SnpEff installation directory by default
```
 - Make a directory in the SnpEff data directory with the name used for the custom genome in the config, e.g. `mkdir customGCF000961545` in my example
 - Rename the genome gbff to `genes.gbk`
 - Run `java -jar <snpEff jar> build -genbank -v <custom_genome_name>`
 - You can now use the custom genome with snpEff by specifying `<custom_genome_name>` in any commands

### BUSCO gene extraction
- **Input**
    - GCF_000961545 reference gff and fasta file
    - BUSCO output tables for each assembly
    - Cleaned reads
- **Output**
    * Multiple sequence alignments for all common single-copy BUSCO genes
    * KALLISTO tables describing the abundance of each single-copy gene
- 1. A script (`busco_to_gff.sh`) was written to map every single-copy BUSCO gene to a gene described in the gff file, obtaining a more precise range in the process.
    - The gene table was filtered to leave only the genes that were shared by every sample (3186 genes). A list of these shared genes was created by processing the output tables with a python script
* 2. Liftoff: Lift over genome annotations from GCF_000961545 reference gff onto scaffolds, generating a lifted gff file
* 3. awk: Use the BUSCO-gff mapping from step 1. to filter the single-copy BUSCO genes from the lifted gffs, generating a TSV file with their new locations on the lifted gff*
    + *The original BUSCO output table describes the BUSCO gene locations specific for the GCF_000961545 reference. Their locations may be different with each assembly
* 4. gffread: Extract the sequences of the BUSCO genes in fasta format using the coordinates specified from the previous file. Every gene is stored in a separate fasta file
    - Initially, I tried obtaining the sequences of the common BUSCO genes for multiple sequence alignment by using the BUSCO transcripts from the Maker assessment (in the `<busco_output_folder>/<run_lineage>/busco_sequences/single_copy_busco_sequences` folder) directly, but the result was odd: ~40% of the genes had identical sequences between samples.
* 5. MAFFT: Combine the fasta files of the same genes for each sample into a single file and perform a multiple sequence alignment using MAFFT
    + MAFFT was chosen for multiple sequence alignment because of its speed and low memory use (~3200 genes were being aligned in parallel). An earlier version of this step used MUSCLE but I quickly ran into memory issues on my laptop and could not get the process to complete.
* 6. kallisto: Combine the per-sample fasta files, generating a set of per-sample gene sequences. Pass the cleaned reads for the sample as input to kallisto for transcript quantification
* 7. R: Using the per-gene multiple sequence alignments from step 5, construct a phylogenetic tree with the neighbor joining method in R, then calculate the Generalized Robinson Foulds distance between the gene's tree and a reference tree
- This step was implemented to identify which gene(s) was responsible for producing the variation that led to the observed reference tree, which was constructed after a run-through of this pipeline using all multiple sequence alignments from step 5.

## GO Annotation and enrichment analysis
The enrichment analysis here is to determine if any GO terms are associated with genes found to have significant variants
- 1. SnpSift: Filter VCF file to keep "high" effect variants and to remove variants with warnings
  + Variant effects in SnpEff are described using the [Sequence Ontology](http://www.sequenceontology.org/browser/obob.cgi) terminology, and the impact categories are defined by the SnpEff developers themselves
  + The exact documentation for SnpEff's VCF files can be found [here](http://pcingola.github.io/SnpEff/adds/VCFannotationformat_v1.0.pdf)
  + "High" effects refers to variants that cause a significant degree of sequence divergence, including copy number variants, exon losses, frameshifts, rare amino acids, stop/start codon variants, splice site variants, transcript ablation.
- 2. R: Add GO terms into the annotation field of the VCF file
  + The mapping file generated by the Python script obtains GO annotations for the gene by querying UniProt for the gene (necessary because the NCBI doesn't store associated GO annotations in the Gene database). 
  + Genes with uncharacterized protein products are unlikely to have any GO annotations
    + 38% of *S. schenckii* genes in the VCF file have no annotations
- 3. R: Format list of genes and their GO annotations for enrichment analysis
  + This is simply a script to prepare the input files for Ontologizer, which filters out genes from the samples' variant stats table file
- 4. Ontologizer: Perform enrichment analysis on the gene list
  + The gene population was defined as all genes that had variants and GO annotations
  + The study set was defined was genes in the upper quartile of "high" variants
  + Ontologizer was run on the samples using the parent-child variant of Fisher's exact test, which, unlike Fisher's, is able to take into account the relational structure of the GO ontology (Bauer et al., 2008). 
    * Since a gene annotated to a given term *t* is also annotated to the parent terms of *t*, the probability that *t* is enriched is increased if one of *t*'s parents is enriched. The interaction between parent and sibling terms thus violates the assumption of independence in Fisher's test.
  + Given the high number of genes being tested in my sample, (6314 in the population, 1524 in the study set), I added the flag for multiple testing correction in Ontologizer (using Bonferroni correction). The unadjusted p-values will appear in the column besides the corrected ones.

# References
* Ashburner et al. Gene ontology: tool for the unification of biology. Nat Genet. 2000 May;25(1):25-9. DOI: 10.1038/75556 [abstract | full text]
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCF_000961545.1, S_schenckii_v1reference; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCF_000961545.1/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCF_000820605.1 S_brasiliensis_5110_v1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCF_000820605.1/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_016097105.2, SVAR_v1.1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/assembly/GCA_016097105.2/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_001630445.1, Genome assembly ASM163044v1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_001630445.1/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_001630435.1, Genome assembly ASM163043v1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_001630435.1/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_021396225.1, Genome assembly ASM2139622v1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_021396225.1/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_021396235.1, Genome assembly ASM2139623v1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_021396235.1/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_016097115.2, Genome assembly SPRO_v1.1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_016097115.2/
- Assembly [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. GCA_021396245.1, Genome assembly ASM2139624v1; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/datasets/genome/GCA_021396245.1/
- Schlagenhauf, Edith and Wicker, Thomas (2016). The TREP platform: A curated database of transposable elements. Available at https://trep-db.uzh.ch.
- Bray, N. L., Pimentel, H., Melsted, P., & Pachter, L. (2016). Near-optimal probabilistic RNA-seq quantification. Nature Biotechnology, 34(5), Article 5. https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt.3519
- Bushnell, B., Rood, J., & Singer, E. (2017). BBMerge – Accurate paired shotgun read merging via overlap. PLOS ONE, 12(10), e0185056. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0185056
- Campbell, M. S., Holt, C., Moore, B., & Yandell, M. (2014). Genome Annotation and Curation Using MAKER and MAKER-P. Current Protocols in Bioinformatics / Editoral Board, Andreas D. Baxevanis ... [et Al.], 48, 4.11.1-4.11.39. https://doi.org/10.1002/0471250953.bi0411s48
- Card, D. C., Adams, R. H., Schield, D. R., Perry, B. W., Corbin, A. B., Pasquesi, G. I. M., Row, K., Van Kleeck, M. J., Daza, J. M., Booth, W., Montgomery, C. E., Boback, S. M., & Castoe, T. A. (2019). Genomic Basis of Convergent Island Phenotypes in Boa Constrictors. Genome Biology and Evolution, 11(11), 3123–3143. https://doi.org/10.1093/gbe/evz226
- Chen, S., Zhou, Y., Chen, Y., & Gu, J. (2018). fastp: An ultra-fast all-in-one FASTQ preprocessor. Bioinformatics (Oxford, England), 34(17), i884–i890. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/bty560
- Danecek, P., Bonfield, J. K., Liddle, J., Marshall, J., Ohan, V., Pollard, M. O., Whitwham, A., Keane, T., McCarthy, S. A., Davies, R. M., & Li, H. (2021). Twelve years of SAMtools and BCFtools. GigaScience, 10(2), giab008. https://doi.org/10.1093/gigascience/giab008
- Eilbeck, K., Moore, B., Holt, C., & Yandell, M. (2009). Quantitative measures for the management and comparison of annotated genomes. BMC Bioinformatics, 10(1), 67. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-10-67
- Ewels, P., Magnusson, M., Lundin, S., & Käller, M. (2016). MultiQC: Summarize analysis results for multiple tools and samples in a single report. Bioinformatics, 32(19), 3047–3048. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btw354
- Flynn, J. M., Hubley, R., Goubert, C., Rosen, J., Clark, A. G., Feschotte, C., & Smit, A. F. (2020). RepeatModeler2 for automated genomic discovery of transposable element families. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 117(17), 9451–9457. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1921046117
- GenBank [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. NC_015923.1; Sporothrix schenckii mitochondrion, complete genome; [cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nucleotide/NC_015923.1
- Goubert, C., Craig, R. J., Bilat, A. F., Peona, V., Vogan, A. A., & Protasio, A. V. (2022). A beginner’s guide to manual curation of transposable elements. Mobile DNA, 13(1), 7. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13100-021-00259-7
- Holt, C., & Yandell, M. (2011). MAKER2: An annotation pipeline and genome-database management tool for second-generation genome projects. BMC Bioinformatics, 12(1), 491. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-12-491
- Katoh, K., Kuma, K., Toh, H., & Miyata, T. (2005). MAFFT version 5: Improvement in accuracy of multiple sequence alignment. Nucleic Acids Research, 33(2), 511–518. https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gki198
- Khalfan, M. (2020, March 25). Variant Calling Pipeline using GATK4 – Genomics Core at NYU CGSB. https://gencore.bio.nyu.edu/variant-calling-pipeline-gatk4/
- Kolmogorov, M., Raney, B., Paten, B., & Pham, S. (2014). Ragout—A reference-assisted assembly tool for bacterial genomes. Bioinformatics, 30(12), i302–i309. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btu280
- Korf, I. (2004). Gene finding in novel genomes. BMC Bioinformatics, 5(1), 59. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2105-5-59
- Li, D., Liu, C.-M., Luo, R., Sadakane, K., & Lam, T.-W. (2015). MEGAHIT: An ultra-fast single-node solution for large and complex metagenomics assembly via succinct de Bruijn graph. Bioinformatics (Oxford, England), 31(10), 1674–1676. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btv033
- Li, H. (2018). Minimap2: Pairwise alignment for nucleotide sequences. Bioinformatics (Oxford, England), 34(18), 3094–3100. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/bty191
- Lomsadze, A., Ter-Hovhannisyan, V., Chernoff, Y. O., & Borodovsky, M. (2005). Gene identification in novel eukaryotic genomes by self-training algorithm. Nucleic Acids Research, 33(20), 6494–6506. https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gki937
- McKenna, A., Hanna, M., Banks, E., Sivachenko, A., Cibulskis, K., Kernytsky, A., Garimella, K., Altshuler, D., Gabriel, S., Daly, M., & DePristo, M. A. (2010). The Genome Analysis Toolkit: A MapReduce framework for analyzing next-generation DNA sequencing data. Genome Research, 20(9), 1297–1303. https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.107524.110
- Prjibelski, A., Antipov, D., Meleshko, D., Lapidus, A., & Korobeynikov, A. (2020). Using SPAdes De Novo Assembler. Current Protocols in Bioinformatics, 70(1), e102. https://doi.org/10.1002/cpbi.102
* Sebastian Bauer and others, Ontologizer 2.0—a multifunctional tool for GO term enrichment analysis and data exploration, Bioinformatics, Volume 24, Issue 14, July 2008, Pages 1650–1651, https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btn250
- Seppey, M., Manni, M., & Zdobnov, E. M. (2019). BUSCO: Assessing Genome Assembly and Annotation Completeness. Methods in Molecular Biology (Clifton, N.J.), 1962, 227–245. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4939-9173-0_14
- Shen, W., Le, S., Li, Y., & Hu, F. (2016). SeqKit: A Cross-Platform and Ultrafast Toolkit for FASTA/Q File Manipulation. PLOS ONE, 11(10), e0163962. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0163962
- Smith, M.R. (2020a). Information theoretic Generalized Robinson-Foulds metrics for comparing phylogenetic trees. Bioinformatics 36: 5007–5013. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa614
- SRA [Internet]. Bethesda (MD): National Library of Medicine (US), National Center for Biotechnology Information; [1988] – . Accession No. SRX6367452; GSM3905740: Sample 1: hyphal form of S. schenckii; Sporothrix schenckii; RNA-Seq ;[cited 2023 Jun 23]. Available from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/SRX6367452
- Stanke, M., & Morgenstern, B. (2005). AUGUSTUS: A web server for gene prediction in eukaryotes that allows user-defined constraints. Nucleic Acids Research, 33(suppl_2), W465–W467. https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gki458
- Ter-Hovhannisyan, V., Lomsadze, A., Chernoff, Y. O., & Borodovsky, M. (2008). Gene prediction in novel fungal genomes using an ab initio algorithm with unsupervised training. Genome Research, 18(12), 1979–1990. https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.081612.108
* The Gene Ontology Consortium. The Gene Ontology knowledgebase in 2023. Genetics. 2023 May 4;224(1):iyad031. DOI: 10.1093/genetics/iyad031 [abstract | full text]
- The UniProt Consortium. (2023). UniProt: The Universal Protein Knowledgebase in 2023. Nucleic Acids Research, 51(D1), D523–D531. https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkac1052
- Wingett, S. W., & Andrews, S. (2018). FastQ Screen: A tool for multi-genome mapping and quality control. F1000Research, 7, 1338. https://doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.15931.2
- Yandell, M., & Ence, D. (2012). A beginner’s guide to eukaryotic genome annotation. Nature Reviews Genetics, 13(5), 329–342. https://doi.org/10.1038/nrg3174
